( Update Jan. 2023: This article has important errors. I am leaving it as-is in case people want to see the historical trail of me gradually making progress. Most of the content here is revised and better-explained in my later post series Intro to Brain-Like AGI Safety , see especially Posts 5 and 6 . Anyway, I still think that this post has lots of big kernels of truth, and that my updates since writing it have mostly been centered around how that big picture is implemented in neuroanatomy. More detail in this comment .) Target audience: Everyone, particularly (1) people in ML/AI, and (2) people in neuroscience. I tried hard to avoid jargon and prerequisites. You can skip the parts that you find obvious. Context: I’m trying to make sense of dopamine in the brain—and decision-making and motivation more generally. This post is me playing with ideas; expect errors and omissions (and then tell me about them!). This post is a bit long; I’m worried no one will read it. So in a shameless attempt to draw you in, here’s a Drake meme... (Thanks Adam Marblestone, Trenton Bricken, Beren Millidge, Connor Leahy, Jeroen Verharen, Ben Smith, Adam Shimi, and Jessica Mollick for helpful suggestions and criticisms.) Summary / Table of Contents I’ll start by briefly reviewing the famous 1990s story relating the role of dopamine in the brain to the “ TD learning ” algorithm. Then I’ll switch over to the “cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop” (“loop” for short), a circuit intimately related to dopamine learning and inference. I’ll go over a theory that the entire telencephalon region of the brain (which includes neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala, basal ganglia, and more) has a coherent overall architecture, with these loops being the key unifying element, and I’ll relate that idea to some bigger-picture ideas about within-lifetime learning vs instinctive behaviors. I’ll offer a toy model of how the loops work. I’ll suggest that there are three more specific categories of what thes