Two Covid-related things happened this week that I did not expect. The CDC admitted that it had failed us during the pandemic, withdrew at long last many of its remaining recommendations and promised reforms to be less academic and otherwise do better. A new paper found potential biological markers for Long Covid, claiming it can be identified via tests that match patient self-reports almost all the time. This points towards potential progress in treatment, and more generally in Long Covid being much more concretely A Thing that might exist and could be reasoned about. There are still flaws, and even without flaws there is still much work to do here. Most of the reasons not to be concerned remain, so up front: I do not think that this should substantially change anyone’s level of Covid precautions. Executive Summary CDC finally fully gives up on six foot social distancing and other measures. CDC admits some failure, promises reforms that seem potentially promising. New study finds potential biological markers for Long Covid. Also I think someone said something about over the counter hearing aids? Let’s run the numbers. The Numbers Predictions Prediction from last week: 650k cases (-5%) and 3,200 deaths (+0%). Results: 602k cases (-12%) and 3,183 deaths (-1%). Prediction for next week: 560k cases (-8%) and 3,200 deaths (+1%). I do not know why cases declined more than expected but result seems robust so I see no reason to expect it not to continue at least somewhat. There won’t be enough time for the decline to impact deaths yet, so I’m mostly going with the null prediction there. There is not much meaningful uncertainty here. Deaths Cases Decline cuts across all four regions. We are fully into the BA.5 era with nothing on the near-term horizon to replace it, so things should be quiet for a few months at least. Physical World Modeling A guide to buying the right HEPA air filter. Bob Wachter sees no sign of anything that might replace BA.5 . Thread also reminds us tha